Again, Merry Christmas.
Our text for our meditation this morning comes to us from our gospel lesson in John and a little bit of our Old Testament lesson as well.
Let's begin with prayer.
Dear Lord Heavenly Father, we just sang it upon our frail humanity, your finger chose to trace the fullness of your deity, the icon of your grace.
We thank you for the gift that we receive this morning, the gift of your son, the gift of your son, Jesus, who will restore us, who will give us eternal life, who we receive daily the food of his word, and today receive the food in his Lord's Supper.
We just ask now that by the power of your Holy Spirit present among us that you would plant your word deep within us that it would guide us, guide our thoughts and our actions, and let everyone see the light of Christ in us in our daily lives, in the name of Jesus we pray.
Amen.
Please be seated.
Dear brothers and sisters in Christ here at Mount Calvary, what a joyous day this is.
For us, for you, as we celebrate the birth of our Savior Jesus Christ.
And as we gather in the beauty of this sanctuary, God's house, surrounded by
Beautiful stained glass.
Yeah, I wish there was a Christmas one in there, but there's not.
Surrounded by stained glass, beautiful soaring architecture, the beautiful decorations, the music, the carols, and the hymns of the season.
I think it's good for us to pause and let what's happening here sink in a little bit.
God didn't send us a memo from heaven.
He didn't send us some unrecognized
Unrecognizable being, he didn't send a distant thunderclap of judgment to the world.
But he came down himself as a baby, recognizable.
One of us, wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger.
And today on this holy
Christmas morning, and we received the holiness of God in this little baby.
Our gospel reading from John 1 invites us kind of into the heart of all of this.
And I don't know about you, but John 1 is one of those readings where every time I read that first opening passages that we had this morning, it kind of gives me the chills.
It gives me that assurance of my faith, that God
has been here, that Jesus has been here, that they have been here since creation, and it has a beautiful way of taking creation and this day and wrapping it all together.
And the kernel that I love in that chapter is, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us.
And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth.
I like to put myself in a place of people in scripture because they were.
They were just like you and me.
And so it's easy for us for a many way to imagine myself as kind of a regular little slunk shepherd on the hills of Bethlehem that night, the night's ordinary.
Maybe it's a little cool, quiet routine.
And then suddenly,
Angel shattered the darkness with this glory and this beautiful good news.
Or picture Mary and Joseph exhausted from traveling, holding their newborn son, not really knowing who he was, that somehow he is the eternal God in this little baby.
Imagine all of that happening to ordinary people.
And Christmas isn't kind of what we make it here, kind of this cozy holiday with the decorations and gifts and everything.
When you think about it, it's the invasion for John 1 of divine light into our darkened and shadowed world.
And that should make us all smile.
And that's why I love about John's gospel.
It doesn't start with shepherds or wise men or camels or any of that.
It begins with eternity.
It begins with creation.
In the beginning was the word.
And then the miracle that we celebrate this morning and that word became flesh.
Not some
extraordinary superhero type of being, descending in power and fanfare for the baby, vulnerable and human.
Why?
Because God wanted to dwell among us, to pitch his tent in our midst.
And the Greek, it suggests that
He tabernacles with us.
We've seen his glory, John says, full of grace and truth.
And then the past few weeks we've talked about how that holiness of God, especially to his Old Testament, people could be quite a terrifying thing.
In the Old Testament, God was.
God's glory was terrifying.
Moses on Sinai hidden in the rock because no one could see God's face and live.
and these beautiful prophecies that we've been marching through this advent in Isaiah.
Isaiah prophesies the day when that would all change, that there would be no longer terror when we came face to face with our God.
Isaiah said it in his
one of his prophecies that we would verse into songs of joy together.
And we talk about Jerusalem.
You verse into songs of joy together, you ruins of Jerusalem.
For the Lord has comforted his people.
He has redeemed Jerusalem.
The Lord will bear his holy arm in the sight of all the nations and all the ends of the earth.
We'll see the salvation of our God in a little tiny day being.
Isaiah 52,
Our Old Testament lesson paints a picture kind of of a ruined city.
Jerusalem in exile.
Broken by sin.
Broken by oppression.
A lot like what we are and who we are.
Yet God promises comfort, redemption, and words of Isaiah, a bare-armed revelation.
It's not like God is like rolling up his sleeves for a fight.
It's more for a rescue, like a father bearing his arm to lift his child out of danger.
And it's not just for a few, but it's for all.
It's for all nations, for all the earth to see.
And that's part of our job.
That's what Christmas is.
The baby in a manger is God's holy arm laid bare.
The word made flesh.
The glory that we can see, we can touch, we can hold, not an overwhelming fire, not in danger, but in a human life that's full of grace and truth and love.
And John contrasts all of this with the law given through Moses.
The law is good.
It shows us God's willingness and remember our confirmation.
It shows our sin, but we know it can't save us.
It diagnoses us for sure.
It tells us what we probably already know about ourselves, but that's a conviction that the law does.
But the grace, the truth, the balm, the cure comes through Jesus Christ.
Out of his fullness, we've received grace and grace of grace already given.
Wave upon wave of undeserved favor.
This little baby, this infant that will need human nurturing and protection, as we'll see next week, next Sunday, is the fullness of God.
And as we think about our own lives, we can kind of use that little example of Jerusalem, that Isaiah paints, but maybe this Christmas finds you or us joyful.
Maybe we're surrounded by family and friends and laughter.
But maybe for some of us, it's tinged with a little bit of sadness or sorrow or something that's weighing on us that we can't seem to shake.
Maybe it's an empty chair at your table.
Maybe it's a strained family relationship or the weight of another year's regrets.
And it seems that that law and our conscience seems to always be whispering to us and planting seeds of doubt.
Happens to me and I know it happens to you.
It's the sin.
The whisper is, you've fallen short.
You've got to take control.
You need to turn things around.
But as Christians, we hear the gospel.
We hear what the message is this morning.
The word became flesh for you.
He dwelt among us to share our joys and pains.
He was born in poverty.
He faced rejection and ultimately died on a cross to redeem you.
And as Isaiah foretold in his prophecies, his salvation is visible to all.
It's not hidden away.
It's not you need some special code or special handshake to get into it.
It's for all.
Nailed to the wood, risen from the tomb, ascended to heaven for all.
No one has ever seen God.
John reminds us, but Jesus, the son.
who is God himself has made himself known.
We heard it in our children's Christmas play, not in carnation, in carnation.
In Jesus, we see the humanity of God.
We see the Father's heart not distant and angry, but close and compassionate.
We see an assurance of how our story ends.
If you were here last night, Pastor Midau preached a great sermon and he used an example of a testimony that U.S.
Senator Ben Sossi wrote.
And I was up there and I said, I was gonna use that one.
But I think it bears repeating because when I look at the testimony, the conviction of faith that he gave in this moment,
I think it's a good example for us as well to ask ourselves, would that be my reaction?
So I'm going to read it, and I want to emphasize one other part that I'd like to draw a little close attention to.
Former U.S.
Senator Ben-Sasi of Nebraska announced on Tuesday that he has been diagnosed with
mestatastic stage four pancreatic cancer, calling it a death sentence.
And he said, this is a tough note to write, but since a bunch of you have started to suspect something, I'll cut to the chase.
Last week, I was diagnosed with stage four pancreatic cancer.
Advanced pancreatic cancer is nasty stuff.
It's a death sentence.
But I already had a death sentence before last week.
We all do.
Sassy was just 53 years old, noted, I've got less time than I would prefer.
But he also expressed his Christian hope, noting that he is a Christian.
And he says, as a Christian, the weeks running up the Christmas are a time to orient our hearts toward the hope of what's to come.
Not an abstract hope in fanciful human goodness, not hope in
a vague, hallmark, sappy spirituality, not a bootstrapped hope in our own strength.
Nope.
Often we lazily say hope when what we mean is optimism.
But to be clear, optimism is great and it's absolutely necessary, but it's insufficient.
It's not the kind of thing that holds up when you tell your daughters you're not going to walk them down the aisle.
nor telling your mom and pops that they're gonna bury their son, he noted.
And this is the kernel that I love, that he speaks in the last sentence, and he writes, those who know ourselves to need a physician should dang well look forward to enduring beauty and eventual fulfillment.
That is, we hope, in a real deliverer,
a rescuing God born at a real time in a real place.
But the eternal city with foundations and without cancer is not yet.
And that is the message that we hear this morning that God came down to us incarnate as a human that we recognize
that we can see, that we can relate to.
And that's the invitation to us for this Christmas.
As Isaiah says, we burst into songs of joy, not because our lives are perfect, not because we can do it all ourselves, not because we may have a
medical condition, we may have a family situation, we may have a relationship that is in need of God's grace, but we burst into songs of joy because God has came down to comfort us.
The ruins of our lives and the ruins of that sin has caused in our lives are redeemed in Christ, not of our doing.
His glory, full of grace and truth, isn't in the distance.
It's not some like distant echo we hear in a cave or something.
It's here.
It's here where he said he was going to be.
It's here in the Word.
It's here in our sacrament.
It's where two or three are gathered.
He promises he will be with us.
And we share those things here.
We share those things as we gather, share those things at this table, uniting us and Christians who have gone before us and brothers and sisters of faith from this congregation from your family that are before us are right here with us in the church triumphant.
And we cherish this salvation by grace alone through faith alone and Christ alone.
No works required.
No pulling ourselves up by the bootstraps, just receiving the gift.
And I guess this means for us today that we need to be cognizant and constantly aware of the word that has come down for us.
And if we're carrying burdens, if we're carrying stress and strife in our life, we lay them in the manger.
And if you're rejoicing and your heart is full of joy and you need to share that joy with someone who's maybe not experiencing that.
And remember that you are carrying the light of Christ and that salvation is for all, for all the earth.
And I guess as we leave this place today and we
continue the celebrations, whether they're with a few of us or with a large family gathering.
We carry that light of Christ into our world, to where we live, to our people, making God's glory known to all in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
Now, may the peace of God with guards your hearts and minds
Let Christ Jesus dwell in you this day and always.
Amen.